History Timeline

1. HTML 1.0
    It was the first HTML that was released in thw whole world. 
    Only few people around the world are involved in the web creation
    at that time, ant it is very limited too. There is nothing much to 
    be done with it. 

2. HTML 2.0
     It includes all features of the HTML 1.0 but added some on it to be mixed.
     It became the standard for designing a website in 1997 January and has defined 
     many of the HTML features for the very first time. 

3. HTML 3.0
    HTML is becoming more popular and because of that more and more people are now using it. But a trouble is started.
    The Netscape Company was the  leader of of the web market at that time, with their Netscape Navigator. To answer 
    the please of many of the HTML authors, they have developed the proprietery tags and attributes into their Netscape
    Navigator, and it was calle Netscape Navigation Tags. 

    This became a big problem because other browsers have tried to replicate those tags for them not to be left behind.
    This means that if you have designed a webpage using  the Netscape, the page will not be good in other browsers. This
    becomes a confusion to others. 
     
    At this time, Dave Ragget, intoduced a new draft of HTML, which is the HTML 3.0. It includes many new features of 
    the HTML, and he promised that this will be more powerful than the previous ones. But the browsers are very slow in
    adapting these new features, and adding only few and nevermind the rest. 
     
    But the authors noted that there will always be improvements in the future because it is designed to be a modular.  
    This only means that it will be easier for many other companies to add in stages. 

4. HTML 3.2
     The tags of some specific browsers came. It became a need that is to be found.  The W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) 
     was created in 1994 to keep the language on evolving. This work was named WILBUR and later become known as HTML 3.2. 
     Most of the extension tags had been introdiced by the Netscape. 

5. HTML 4.01
    HTML 4.01 was a very large evolution of the standards of the HTML.  It has a code named COUGAR.  Most of its functuons
    and features came from the HTML 3.0, as well as the old tags and the CSS or the Cascading styleSheet. 
     
    W3c recommended this in 1997 December and become the offical standard in 1998, April.  Modern browsers also have a 
    very good improvement. 

    While HTML 4.01 was out in a little while , the documentation have been revised and been corrected on some of its features.

6. XHTML 1.0 
     At the 21st Century the w3C has issued the XHTML specification. Since 2000, January 26, it became the standard with the 
     HTML 4.01 have their new specifications to work. It is a new branch for the HTML that incorporates the HTML. There aren't 
     many new tags and attributes ib the XHTML but other things have changed which makes it more accessible and functional. 
     It is a new set of coding rules. 

7. HTML 5
     It was in this time that many of pragmatic web technology fans,  programmers and specification writers started to build
     their own language, and not using the W3C procedures.  They were called the WHATG ( Web Hypertext Application Technology Group)
     and developed a new specification. 
 
    HTML 5 is designed for the web, today, tomorrow and in the future. It is the spec that will be still worjing in at least a
    few more decades so it's development is very slow and is considered.